Let's start with the reservation publisher.
The KafkaOutboundConfig class is a Spring configuration class.
We start by defining the broker we're going to connect to,
which is the local machine on port 9092.
We create two channels,
the reservationChannel is the channel to which the
BazReservationService will publish reservations,
which is handled by an objectToJsonTransformer,
and the publishReservationToKafka is the channel that
publishes the messages to Kafka.
The handler method creates a being that's invoked by a
ServiceActivater when a message is published to the
publishReservationToKafka channel.
The KafkaProducerMessageHandler is created with a KafkaTemplate
that is configured with a ProducerFactory.
The default KafkaProducerFactory is configured with
three producer config properties.
The BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG specifies the brokerAddress to connect to.
The KEY_SERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG defines the class name that
performs the serialization of the message key,
which is the partition name.
And finally,
the VALUE_SERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG defines the class name that
performs the serialization of the message value,
which is the message payload.
For both of these,
we use the StringSerializer because we're going to send a JSON
string as the message body and a string as the key.
With the KafkaTemplate created,
we create a KafkaProducerMessageHandler and specify two properties.
The TopicExpression sets the name of the topic we want to publish to,
and the MessageKeyExpression sets the partition name in that topic.
All of this is to say that this message handler will publish its messages to
the reservation key partition in the ReservationTopic.
Next,
we create a messaging gateway named BazReservationGateway that
publishes a BazReservation to the reservationChannel when it's
published ReservationMethod is called.
The BazReservation is a plain old Java object that
manages an id and a name field.
The BazReservation service is a Spring service with the
BazReservationGateway wired into it that publishes a
BazReservation to the reservationChannel through the Gateway when
it's PublishedReservation method is called.
Finally,
the BazReservationPublisher application is a Spring boot command line
application with the BazReservationService wired into it that
publishes 6 reservations through the service,
all with a 2 second delay between posts.
Now let's look at the receiving end.
The KafkaInboundConfig defines a reservationFromKafka
Channel and a Kafka message source annotated with the
InboundChannelAdapter annotation.
This annotation defines the channel to publish messages to,
namely the ReservationFromKafka channel,
and defines a poller that polls the message source
every 1 second for new messages.
We create a new KafkaMessageSource using a ConsumerFactory that Spring
will automatically create for us when it sees the Spring Kafka libraries
in the class path and a ConsumerProperties,
which specifies the name of the topic we want to poll and the groupId.
Recall that all consumers with the same groupId will consume messages together,
but in this case, we only have one consumer,
but regardless, we're required to specify the groupId,
so we set it to ReservationGroup.
The BazReservationListener is a Spring service with a ServiceActivater that
handles messages published to the reservationFromKafka channel.
We received the message as a JSON string, use a Jackson ObjectMapper to
convert it to an object, and then log it. Finally,
the KafkaExampleApplication just starts the listener as the Spring boot
application loads the beings from the configuration class.
Let's run both applications and review the logs. In the
BazReservationPublisher application, we can see that the
BazReservationService publishes 6 reservations,
and in the KafkaExampleApplication, we see that the BazReservationListener receives the 6 reservations.